[docs-11806] New "Getting Started" Guide for Feature Flags (#31297)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/feature_flags/_index.md

---
title: Getting Started with Feature Flags
further_reading:
- link: 'https://github.com/DataDog/openfeature-js-client/blob/main/README.md'
  tag: 'Source Code'

>   text: 'OpenFeature JavaScript client documentation'

Reviewer: Thanks for mentioning that I hadn't noticed - we can leave it that way for now since the documentation is being provided here. What's your preference?

---

## Overview

Datadog feature flags offer a powerful, integrated way to manage feature delivery, with built-in observability and seamless integration across the platform.

* **Real-time metrics:** Understand who's receiving each variant, as well as how your flag impacts the health & performance of your application—all in real time.

> * **Supports any data type:** Use Booleans, strings, numbers or full JSON objects—whatever your use case requires.

Reviewer 2: Today I learned!! 😮

* **Built for experimentation:** Target specific audiences for A/B tests, roll out features gradually with canary releases, and automatically roll back when regressions are detected.

> * **Integration with Datadog:** Out-of-the-box integration with Datadog metrics, change tracking events, and more—no additional instrumentation needed.

Author: ```suggestion
```

* **OpenFeature compatible:** Built on the OpenFeature standard, ensuring compatibility with existing OpenFeature implementations and providing a vendor-neutral approach to feature flag management.

## Configure your environments

Your organization likely already has pre-configured environments for Development, Staging, and Production. If you need to configure these or any other environments, navigate to the [**Environments**][3] page to create tag queries for each environment. You can also identify which environment should be considered a Production environment.

{{< img src="getting_started/feature_flags/environments-list.png" alt="Environments list" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Create your first feature flag

### Step 1: Import and initialize the SDK

First, install `@datadog/openfeature-browser` and `@openfeature/web-sdk` as dependencies in your project:

```

> yarn add @datadog/openfeature-browser @openfeature/web-sdk

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
yarn add @datadog/openfeature-browser@preview @openfeature/web-sdk
```

Then, add the following to your project to initialize the SDK:

```js
import { DatadogProvider } from '@datadog/openfeature-browser';
import { OpenFeature } from '@openfeature/web-sdk';

// Initialize the provider
const provider = new DatadogProvider({
   clientToken: '<CLIENT_TOKEN>',
   applicationId: '<APPLICATION_ID>',

>    enableExposureLogging: true,

Reviewer 2: imo this is still useful to include in the docs - it's required for canaries & real-time metrics too.

   applicationId: '<APPLICATION_ID>',
   enableExposureLogging: true,

>    site: 'datadoghq.com',

Reviewer: These are parameterized too - https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/

>    env: '<YOUR_ENV>',

Author: ```suggestion
   env: '<YOUR_ENV>', // Same environment normally passed to the RUM SDK
```

>    service: 'my-service',

Reviewer 2: inconsistent placeholder formatting
```suggestion
   service: '<SERVICE_NAME>',
```

   version: '1.0.0',
});

// Set the provider

> await OpenFeature.setProvider(provider);

Reviewer 2: Minor tweak to match the code examples in the implementation details section of the UI
```suggestion
await OpenFeature.setProviderAndWait(provider);
```

### Step 3: Evaluate the flag and write feature code

In your application code, use the SDK to evaluate the flag and gate the new feature.

```js
import { OpenFeature } from '@openfeature/web-sdk';

const client = OpenFeature.getClient();

// If applicable, set relevant attributes on the client's global context
// (e.g. org id, user email)
await OpenFeature.setContext({
   org: { id: 2 },
   user: { id: 'user-123', email: 'user@example.com' }
});

// This is what the SDK returns if the flag is disabled in
// the current environment
const fallback = false; 

const showFeature = await client.getBooleanValue('show-new-feature', fallback);
if (showFeature) {
   // Feature code here
}
```

After you've completed this step, redeploy the application to pick up these changes. Additional usage examples can be found in the SDK's [README][1].

### Step 4: Define targeting rules and enable the feature flag

Now that the application is ready to check the value of your flag, you can start adding targeting rules. Targeting rules enable you to define where or to whom to serve different variants of your feature. 

> Go to **Feature Flags**, select your flag, then select **Targeting Rules & Rollouts**. Select the environment whose rules you want to modify from the dropdown, and click **Edit Targeting Rules**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to **Feature Flags**, select your flag, then find the section titled **Targeting Rules & Rollouts**. Select the environment whose rules you want to modify, and click **Edit Targeting Rules**.
```

{{< img src="getting_started/feature_flags/ff-targeting-rules-and-rollouts.png" alt="Targeting Rules & Rollouts" style="width:100%;" >}}

### Step 5: Publish the rules in your environments

After saving changes to the targeting rules, publish those rules by enabling your flag in the environment of your choice. 

<div class="alert alert-info">
As a general best practice, changes should be rolled out in a Staging environment before rolling out in Production.
</div>

> Go to **Targeting Rules & Rollouts > Per environment override**, and select **Use targeting rules** in the dropdown under the environment where you want to enable the rules.

Reviewer 2: We'll need to modify these instructions to match the updated designs that will land when https://github.com/DataDog/web-ui/pull/227310 is merged

Reviewer 3: Same for any screenshots of the updated UI. Is there an ETA of when that UI PR will be merged? Just wondering if it should delay publishing the Getting Started guide, or if we could update the docs separately in a later iteration.

Reviewer 2: PR was just merged, I can provide updated screenshots in a few mins

> Go to **Targeting Rules & Rollouts > Per environment override**, and select **Use targeting rules** in the dropdown under the environment where you want to enable the rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the **Targeting Rules & Rollouts** section, toggle your selected environment to **Enabled**.
```
